One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. One,
two, three. Say something. Testing. Testing.
This is Monday, the 28th of August. Sitting in a
nice, quiet living room at Jim Ray's house,
getting ready to chat with him about his
experiences here, being the man in charge of all of
the scenery. Let's see, now I should say Gene and
not Eugene. That's fine, either way. But most
people call you Gene? Most people call me Gene,
yes. To introduce yourself to anyone who may
listen to this tape or read a transcription that
didn't know you, describe your background before
you got to A&M. Where'd you grow up, what'd your
family do, went to high school, college, where'd
you work and all in the service before you got here?
I was born east of Abilene, Texas, between Abilene
and Albany, and my father was a farmer. My mother
taught school at a little two-room school at
Hamby, Texas.
When I was, after school when I was nine, we moved to
Leveland, Texas. My dad bought a hatchery and feed
store there and we moved out to the flatlands and
graduated from Leveland High School in 1955 and
went to Texas Tech and
majored in horticulture and park administration
and
graduated in 1960
and came back to Level End in a small business.
and was in that for, it was a small nursery and
greenhouse operation until 1963 and decided that
the town was too small and people didn't,
understand that I was grown and I had some
information and that my services weren't free.
And so we moved to Oklahoma City and I went to work
for Higdon's nursery and greenhouse operation. I
was managing some greenhouses, about an acre of
greenhouses, and did a little landscape design
work. That's when I renewed my acquaintance with
Bob Rucker. Bob came in, he was back, Bob was my
landscape design prof at Tech and had gone back to
the University of Oklahoma and I guess it was maybe
the fall of 1959, somewhere along in there. And he
was at Tech about three years and at any rate, he
came in the governor, Henry Bellman, had asked him
to more or less be in charge of the work Oklahoma
exhibited at the New York World's Fair, which was
depicting the green area of Oklahoma, the water
and everything like this. He came in hunting
redbud trees, state tree of Oklahoma. And we
hadn't seen each other in a number of years. And so,
you know, I knew he was down there and things, this
was long in the fall of 1963 and long in the spring,
he came back in and that was an early summer
actually because that had taken him away from his
job at OU and he said how would you like to leave this
place and I said fine because at that point in time
my 45 hour a week job had gone to seven days a week
candle can't and it was a lot of long hours, and I
said fine, where's the door? And so that's how I got
into the campus grounds, landscape grounds
business. And I went down as Bob's assistant
supervisor in the summer of 1964. and I've often
kind of kiddingly said that it was the New York
World's Fair that got me into this and which it
actually was I guess but and I stayed at Oklahoma
until Bob came down here in 1968 and I took his job
and then Stayed there until
early 1973, and then came to work down here on March
1, 1973. Summarize briefly your
responsibilities at OU. My responsibility at OU
was basically what they were here. I was in charge
of all the landscaping grounds, a few other
things, but primarily all the grounds,
everything outside basically, and the routine
maintenance, the design and implementation of
new landscapes around buildings, and this type of
thing. describe the process here. How did they
contact you, or you them? How did the employment
come about? Well, I had
got a call. Well, when Bob came down here in 1968, he
came down here to a garden club. He was very
involved in national garden clubs. And he came
back and said, would you like to go to A&M? in 1968
and I said no I'm happy here you know and when he had
mentioned that when in fact I think they were
really after him which that in fact came about but
then in in I guess in December
yeah it must have been in December of of uh 73 yeah 72
ray smith who was director of personnel at that
point in time called me and asked me if i would be
interested in coming down to interview and i said
yeah i might you know uh And although I was quite
happy at OU, it had been very lean on salary
increases and all, and so I decided it might be a
good thing I could come down and visit Rucker and
all like that. So he said, well, you can come down
during Christmas break. And I said, what
Christmas break? I said, we get Christmas Eve
afternoon and Christmas. But anyway, I had plenty
of vacation time, so I came down and interviewed
and visited with them. Bob and he carried me around
and then took me up to meet Tom Cherry who was his
boss and ultimately my boss and we became, we had a
very good connection at that point in time and
ultimately had a very good working relationship
but I'm very fond of both Bob Rucker and Tom Cherry.
As far as you then indicate they contacted you you
didn't yes no i didn't apply do you have any idea
whether you were the only person they were i have no
idea never asked who uh who who was involved in the
interview visit who'd you meet um basically bob
rucker and tom cherry uh did they sit down together
and they talked to you separately uh separately
and then together um I came and visited with Bob,
and he took me around campus and then up to the Koch
building in Tom's office. And we sat down and
probably visited for about an hour. And finally,
Mr. Cherry said, what makes you think you can come
down here and handle this? And I said, well, it
might be we could both learn something, you know,
because me being from Texas Tech and all. And we got
along great. did did they give you a comparatively
clear understanding of what they were looking for
what what did they want done they they wanted
someone basically to assist bob and i came as
assistant landscape architect and in charge of
basically all the all the maintenance operations
and i had some input into the design and at that
point in time we were just formulating
I would guess I would call it a site development
aspect where as a project, let's say a major
building project went through facilities
planning and construction, there would be a
certain amount of money that was set aside for site
work, landscape and irrigation. And at that point
in time we decided that if we were going to have a
viable landscape, we had to irrigate it. So
therefore the two went hand in glove. because if if
uh if we were going to have something green we had to
water it and that started we had a few irrigation
systems on campus but that really started the
growth of all of our landscape irrigation systems
simply because there are times like this summer
that if you don't water it you're not going to have
it do you remember asking them any questions that
where you got an answer that was disappointing to
you? No, really.
We talked about a number of things, how it would
work. One of the things that, and I'll be real
frank, what appealed to me was that the grounds
area was in the final stage of separation from the
physical plant. At OU, I had worked under the
director of physical plant, which it will work
both ways there are times when it works better and
this basically allowed direct access to the
administration without having to go through a
director of physical plant who is normally an
engineer there's nothing wrong with engineers
but they're interested in buildings and
structures and and utilities and things like this
and they're not too keen on the green things and the
aesthetic part of a campus. That's what I've
generally found. Did they give you a
comparatively clear definition of what your
responsibility is going to be relative to working
with Bob Rucker? not really they basically they
said that I would be his assistant and that you see
it at that time Bob I believe was also head of he was
director of grounds landscape architect and head
of horticulture floriculture the academic side
and which that that was a pretty good load and so
basically they wanted me to to handle the
maintenance end of it and the implementation part
as we got into some new buildings and site work,
this kind of thing. What promises did they make or
what commitments did they make? Nothing other
than
I would be making about a third to 50% more than what
I was making at OU. All right, now that's out. This
is the only money question I'm going to ask. What
was the beginning salary? I came here at $15,000 a
year. I was making $10,000 at OU. And this is 1973?
1973.
Let's see. In these conversations, interviews or
just plain conversations, the fact that you had
gone to Tech, did that appear to be an advantage or a
disadvantage? No. It was a... It was a point of
discussion a little bit between Mr. Cherry and
myself. He was kidding me quite a bit, you know,
about a little bit, and it was all, I enjoyed that
part of it. That was great. Was he an A&M
undergraduate?
I don't remember where he went to school, but I
never thought of him as an
You know, I think he went to Sam. I believe you're
right. I'm almost positive he did. But, no, he and I
just, I don't know, we, you know, you get, and I
think we both got the feeling, you know, we just
both hit it off very nicely. Describe the move down
here. Well, I... The family and the meetings and
everything. I
left, it was on Friday, Friday evening, it was like
3rd of January, something like this. But I
remember it was on a Friday because I'd come down on
Thursday. And so I had called my wife and told her
that it was very interesting and we had some
talking to do, you know, when I got back. And there
was a major cold spell coming down. And I got iced in
at Fort Worth going back. And something told me I
better get up the next morning and try to get home.
And it took me eight hours to drive from Fort Worth
to Norman. And the further I got, the more snow. I
mean, there were cars off the road, you know, and it
was, Oh, 20, 25 miles an hour, maybe. And I got home,
and we had like 15 inches of snow on the ground. But
anyway, we sat down and talked about it. And of
course, we have three children. We have the
oldest, Randy. He was in eighth grade. Melissa was
in probably the fifth grade. And Doug was
probably second grade, maybe. And so we decided,
okay, this is too good an opportunity to pass up. So
we talked to the kids and Randy says, bye, I'm
staying here. You know, I like it here. I don't want
to move. So we decided that maybe we could afford a
four bedroom house. And at that point in time, he
and Douglas would not have to share a room because
it was like the odd couple, basically. because
Randy is always neat and exact, I mean, everything
in its place, and Douglas is, you know, the floor is
a storage facility, that kind of thing. And so that
kind of changed his mind a little bit. So anyway, we
came down and I called Bob and told him that I would
accept the job. And so then we made a couple of
trips, three trips down, house hunting and all
that, put our house on the market. And there were
only three or four four-bedroom houses in Bryan
and College Station for sale. This happened to be
one of them. Was this a new house? No, this was about
18 months old, and the folks, the family were
military, and he'd come back to school for a little
bit and was leaving, and we looked at it, and Janet
didn't like the kitchen, and then we looked and
looked and looked, and finally came back to that
that it was a very small kitchen and but we decided
we wouldn't handle it and so we
I guess our house sold probably two days before we
moved you know and I'd gotten calls from one or two
of the banks said you know if you need if you need a
loan before you sell your house not a problem you
know and it was a very um
very warm type reception and all and so we moved and
uh down here the last couple of days of february and
uh and i went to work first march describe getting
settled in first of all in the community the
schools the community the neighbors what was it
like for a newcomer to College Station it wasn't
very bad the
Janet joined the newcomers group and of course the
kids moved and and they got right in school and they
didn't have they didn't have a problem blending
in. Of course, Randy was right close to the high
school, and Melissa was going, I think she
finished up at South Knoll, and Doug was going to
South Knoll, and then the next year she went to, I
guess, the middle school then. On that point, did
you have any impression of the quality of the
Indian Missile Aid schools with the Norman
schools at that time? Um fairly similar the
particularly the two the two younger ones had the
grade school they were in was the open open
classroom concept and that that was the primary
difference I think it's just that they were used to
that rather than you know very well delineated
classrooms but really didn't didn't have any in
terms of quality I don't know that we had any
quality differential there at all. We had good
schools in Norman, and kids seemed to,
they didn't have to do any catch-up at all. If
anything, they might have been a little bit ahead
in places. All right, now describe getting
settled in on the campus. Okay. Where were you
quartered, and who, staff did you work with, and so
forth? We had at that point in time only a couple of
supervisory staff, and we were headquartered at
what was then the grounds maintenance quarters on
Old College at Hensel Park, a couple of quonset
huts that were quite old, and had probably about 50
workers. had a couple of supervisory staff, and I
never will forget, of course, College Avenue was,
as it is now, is busy thoroughfare. And we, I found
out, didn't have a whole lot of equipment. I had
some tractor-operated mowers, and I think we had
two or three small riding mowers. And I remember
thinking, after a got to work and the people were
going out and there were those three little riding
mowers going out at eight o'clock in the morning
and competing with that vehicular traffic on
college avenue and just scared the liver out of me
you know it just you know just hazards everywhere
just but you know we got by that and then ultimately
probably about five or six months later we wound up
with a portion of the basement of the old hospital
building that we used as as a work area for the
smaller equipment and things like this so we
didn't have to road it back and forth you know when
and got rid of a lot of the uh the hazard of the on that
level how did I'm assuming the two institutions
were similar in size and enrollment and so forth
then. Probably so. How did the workforce here and
equipment compare with what you left at OU? It was
not as good here.
because I had worked on equipment up there and had
gotten it up to what I would consider a decent
level. And that's one of the things Mr. Cherry was
very active in. He, you
know, I would see a need and talk to Bob and either he
or I would talk to Mr. Cherry and Tom found two or
three batches of money that I'm not sure where he
got it but I didn't worry about that at the time and
so we could we could purchase needed equipment
ranging from oh gosh a small motor grader to riding
type mowers, and just a whole gamut of different
types of equipment that we needed. And that, we got
the first batch of equipment was probably in the
summer of 73 and then in the fall of 73, another
batch of equipment. So we were catching up in a
hurry, you know. And then, by then, I was melded
into the budget thing. Of course, in September of
73 is when Bob started having knee problems. And I
think he just had surgery at that point in time on
his good leg. And the doctors told him that he was
going to have to make a choice, that he couldn't
Both jobs were too demanding, particularly on his
good leg, and that he really needed to give one of
the jobs up. And so he decided that he would go to the
academic side. And then I went over with Mr. Cherry
and met with Dr. Williams. and about my assuming
the job of Director of Grounds Maintenance. And we
talked for a while. And there had been, I think,
some consternation with the academic landscape
architecture folks about Bob being called
landscape architect. Well, he was. I mean, he's a
very qualified landscape architect. But the fact
that he wasn't in the academic side and this kind of
thing, I think, I don't know. And Dr. Williams
says, well, you'll be director of grounds, but you
won't be landscape architect. You won't be titled
landscape architect. Yeah, that's what it was.
And I said, well, you know, that's not a problem. I
know what I am, and I know what I can do and that kind
of thing. And it went that way for several years
before it was changed to director of grounds
landscape architect again, you know, but, but I
remember that real, real clearly, you know, that
that was, and I, I, uh, I don't know whether I looked
puzzled or not. And later Mr. Cherry said, well,
there's a little, little bit of problem there with
some of the academic folks and just passed it off
on, you know, like that, like Tom would do. In that
and other sessions, What did you sense to be the
working relationship between Tom Cherry and Jack
Williams?
I sensed that it was good. I didn't sense any
kind of... Mutual trust and respect? Yeah, I think
so. They seemed to have a very good working
relationship. I know that's great. And I was only
with both of them. probably a half a dozen times.
Describe Tom Cherry as a human being, and then as a
supervisor. He was, in my opinion, one of the more
understanding people that I've met.
Tom was extremely knowledgeable in the finance,
the budget works, and all like this. And I know I,
when I became director of Grounds, Well, going
back to mid-summer of 1973, that's when we were
setting up, we set up a landscape construction
section and irrigation, a landscape maintenance
section, and a roads and pavement section. found
supervisors for each each of those areas and the
landscape construction section was going to
handle all of the new construction and maintain
the install and maintain irrigation systems this
kind of thing and as a part of that we were set up with
a local account that's something that had never
been done with the ground theory and and Mr. Cherry
and Clark Diebel set the thing up, and Bob says,
okay, you handle the outside, I'll take care of all
this. Well, I didn't have an idea, man of the moon,
how the local account worked. And when the change
made, it was made rather quickly, and we were still
tied to the physical plant with an accountant over
in their accounting area, named Marie L. And so BC
Hurt, who was my number one guy, had been, BC had
been here for like 35 years or so. H-E-R-T.
H-U-R-T. H-U-R-T Hurt. Yeah, BC. He had no name,
just initials, BC. And in December And we'd been
working out of a local account, you know, and all
like this. And I got a call in December, early
December of, no, just before Christmas of 73. And I
got a call from Marie. And she said, sir, you need to
come over here. So I went over there. She said,
you've got a problem. You're $60,000 in the red.
And I thought, oh, geez. And so it was probably a day
or two before Christmas break. I spent the most
miserable Christmas break I have ever spent in all
my life, wondering why I'd ever come down here. And
my wife still doesn't know. I've never said
anything. And I made up my mind. that I needed to go
talk to Tom Cherry. So first day back I called and I
said, Mr. Cherry, I need to come talk to you. I've
got a problem. Went up and I laid it all out and he
said, yeah, you've got a problem. I thought, oh,
man. and he said you need somebody to mind your
business and so he called downstairs and got Clark
Diebel brought him up and they set some things up
and then he called I guess Logan Council was
director of physical plant at that point in time
yeah and the upshot was they moved Marie Allen over
physically to us and Clark set up some he set us up on
how to handle the local account and you know and
once I got into it it was pretty simple I just didn't
know that if you spin it you had to make it kind of
thing and so by uh between B.C. Hurt and Bill
Vittlepill who was He was working half-time. He
was half-time horticulture, half-time grounds,
and ultimately came over full-time the next year.
But between the three or four of us, we were out of
the red by March of 74, you know, learned a valuable
lesson. But like I say, Tom Cherry didn't faze him,
you know. He just said, you need somebody to mind
your business, you know. Now, in hindsight, was
that whole matter handled appropriately? Oh,
yeah. Yeah, I figured I was going to be fired,
frankly, because, I mean, $60,000, you know.
Clark Diebel, describe him. Clark was one of the
more helpful guys. I mean, any time I needed a
problem solved or had a problem with money or
accounts or anything like that, I could always
call Clark. And he had an answer. He always had an
answer.